[WebView2Frame]: ExecuteScript and navigation events specs (#1590) (#1646)
MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback: specs/ExecuteScript.md

# Background

> Currently WebView2 supports script execution in the main page only -

Reviewer: Reword slightly to make it clear this is about injecting script

documentation can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2?view=webview2-1.0.902.49#executescript).
With introduction of API for [separate iframes](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2frame?view=webview2-1.0.902.49) we find it useful to support script execution in child frames also.
The time when script can be executed is tightly coupled with the navigation state of the page,
therefore we additionally providing [navigation events](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/navigation-events) in the iframes - NavigationStarting, ContentLoading, NavigationCompleted and DOMContentLoaded event.

In this document we describe API additions to support ExecuteScript and navigation
events in iframes. We'd appreciate your feedback.

# Description

> Using ExecuteScript user can run script in the context of a calling frame and receive the script result in the callback if provided.

Reviewer: Please update.

> If ExecuteScript is run during the navigation it should be called after ContentLoading event.

Reviewer: Please document what happens if you don't do this.

# Examples
## DOMContentLoaded event and ExecuteScript
DOMContentLoaded is raised when the initial HTML document has been parsed.

## .NET, WinRT
```c#
    webView.CoreWebView2.FrameCreated += (sender, args) =>
    {
        args.Frame.DOMContentLoaded += (frameSender, DOMContentLoadedArgs) =>
        {
            args.Frame.ExecuteScriptAsync(
                "let content = document.createElement(\"h2\");" +
                "content.style.color = 'blue';" +
                "content.textContent = \"The url of the iframe is \" + window.location.href.toString();" +
                "document.body.appendChild(content);");
        };
    };
```

## Win32 C++
```cpp
    CHECK_FAILURE(m_appWindow->GetWebView()->QueryInterface(IID_PPV_ARGS(&m_webView2)));

>     wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2_4> webview2_4 = m_webView.try_query<ICoreWebView2_4>();

Reviewer: For .NET & WinRT there's one class with all of the known APIs. If an API has no implementation because the SDK is newer than the runtime, the API will throw.

>     wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2_4> webview2_4 = m_webView.try_query<ICoreWebView2_4>();

Reviewer: Please look into

    if (webview2_4)
    {
        CHECK_FAILURE(webview2_4->add_FrameCreated(
            Callback<ICoreWebView2FrameCreatedEventHandler>(
                [](ICoreWebView2* sender, ICoreWebView2FrameCreatedEventArgs* args)
                    -> HRESULT {
                    wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2Frame> webviewFrame;
                    CHECK_FAILURE(args->get_Frame(&webviewFrame));

>                     wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2ExperimentalFrame> frameExperimental =

Reviewer: Yes. Update sample

                    if (frameExperimental)
                    {
                        frameExperimental->add_DOMContentLoaded(
                            Callback<
                                ICoreWebView2ExperimentalFrameDOMContentLoadedEventHandler>(
                                [](
                                    ICoreWebView2Frame* frame,
                                    ICoreWebView2DOMContentLoadedEventArgs* args) -> HRESULT {
                                    wil::com_ptr<ICoreWebView2ExperimentalFrame> frameExperimental;
                                    frame->QueryInterface(IID_PPV_ARGS(&frameExperimental));

                                    frameExperimental->ExecuteScript(
                                        LR"~(
                                        let content = document.createElement("h2");
                                        content.style.color = 'blue';
                                        content.textContent = "The url of the iframe is " + window.location.href.toString();
                                        document.body.appendChild(content);
                                        )~",

>                                         Callback<ICoreWebView2ExecuteScriptCompletedHandler>(

Reviewer 2: Because it's not optional in C++. Same as main ICoreWebView2::ExecuteScript. You don't see it in C# because C# expresses the method as a Task which you can choose to `await`.

>                                         Callback<ICoreWebView2ExecuteScriptCompletedHandler>(

Reviewer: Either replace with nullptr because we don't do anything, or update sample code to do something interesting?

Add comment to callback explaining it can be nullptr.

@david-risney update IDL to note that async callback completion handlers (and probably event?) is optional: add unique attribute

                                            [](HRESULT error, PCWSTR result) -> HRESULT {
                                                return S_OK;
                                            })
                                            .Get());
                                    return S_OK;
                                })
                                .Get(),

>                             NULL);

Reviewer 2: Is the registration token really optional? In the IDL, the registration token is marked `[out]`, which disallows NULL.

Reviewer: @david-risney ensure win32/com doc notes this can be nullptr despite IDL not having a way to express that.

                    }
                    return S_OK;
                })
                .Get(),
            NULL));
    }
```

# API Notes
See [API Details](#api-details) section below for API reference.

# API Details
## IDL
```c#
/// WebView2Frame provides direct access to the iframes information and use.
[uuid(423ba05f-55dd-4c50-8339-22afd009ed31), object, pointer_default(unique)]
interface ICoreWebView2ExperimentalFrame : IUnknown {
  /// Add an event handler for the `NavigationStarting` event.
  /// A frame navigation will raise a `NavigationStarting` event and
  /// a `CoreWebView2.FrameNavigationStarting` event. All of the
  /// `FrameNavigationStarting` event handlers will be run before the

>   /// `NavigationStarting` event handlers. All of the event handlers share a

Reviewer 3: Why this event order? I was expecting both events to raise for one frame before moving on to the next frame.

Actually, the fact that these can be ordered like this makes it sound like the events are async?

Reviewer: Update docs to make it clear this is all of the blah event handlers for the frame that is navigating, (not all the event handlers across multiple frames)

  /// common `NavigationStartingEventArgs` object. Whichever event handler is
  /// last to change the `NavigationStartingEventArgs.Cancel` property will
  /// decide if the frame navigation will be cancelled. Redirects raise this
  /// event as well, and the navigation id is the same as the original one.
  ///

>   /// You may block corresponding navigations until the event handler returns.

Reviewer 3: Not sure what this means?

Reviewer 2: +1 Maybe it's trying to say "Navigations are not performed until the event handler returns"?

Reviewer: "Navigations will be blocked until all (Frame)NavigationStarting event handlers return"

  HRESULT add_NavigationStarting(
      [in] ICoreWebView2FrameNavigationStartingEventHandler* eventHandler,
      [out] EventRegistrationToken* token);

  /// Remove an event handler previously added with `add_NavigationStarting`.
  HRESULT remove_NavigationStarting(
      [in] EventRegistrationToken token);

  /// Add an event handler for the `ContentLoading` event.  `ContentLoading`
  /// triggers before any content is loaded, including scripts added with
  /// `AddScriptToExecuteOnDocumentCreated`.  `ContentLoading` does not trigger
  /// if a same page navigation occurs (such as through `fragment`
  /// navigations or `history.pushState` navigations).  This operation
  /// follows the `NavigationStarting` and precedes `NavigationCompleted` events.
  HRESULT add_ContentLoading(
      [in] ICoreWebView2FrameContentLoadingEventHandler* eventHandler,
      [out] EventRegistrationToken* token);

  /// Remove an event handler previously added with `add_ContentLoading`.
  HRESULT remove_ContentLoading(
      [in] EventRegistrationToken token);

  /// Add an event handler for the `NavigationCompleted` event.
  /// `NavigationCompleted` runs when the CoreWebView2Frame has completely

>   /// loaded (`body.onload` runs) or loading stopped with error.

Reviewer 2: I'm guessing we raise NavigationCompleted immediatley *before* `body.unload` runs? Or does it get raised concurrently with `body.unload`? (I.e., page's unload handlers run in parallel while the NavigationCompleted handler is running.)

```suggestion
  /// loaded (immediately before `body.onload` runs) or loading stopped with error.
```

Reviewer: Update docs to say if body.onload runs immediately before or immediately after or concurrent?

  ///
  /// \snippet ScenarioWebViewEventMonitor.cpp NavigationCompleted
  HRESULT add_NavigationCompleted(
      [in] ICoreWebView2FrameNavigationCompletedEventHandler* eventHandler,
      [out] EventRegistrationToken* token);

  /// Remove an event handler previously added with `add_NavigationCompleted`.
  HRESULT remove_NavigationCompleted(
      [in] EventRegistrationToken token);

  /// Add an event handler for the DOMContentLoaded event.
  /// DOMContentLoaded is raised when the iframe html document has been parsed.

>   /// This aligns with the the document's DOMContentLoaded event in html.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  /// This aligns with the document's DOMContentLoaded event in html.
```

Reviewer: Please fix

  ///
  /// \snippet ScenarioWebViewEventMonitor.cpp DOMContentLoaded
  HRESULT add_DOMContentLoaded(
      [in] ICoreWebView2FrameDOMContentLoadedEventHandler* eventHandler,
      [out] EventRegistrationToken* token);
  /// Remove an event handler previously added with add_DOMContentLoaded.
  HRESULT remove_DOMContentLoaded(
      [in] EventRegistrationToken token);

  /// Run JavaScript code from the javascript parameter in the current frame.

>   /// The result of evaluating the provided JavaScript is used in this parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  /// The result of evaluating the provided JavaScript is passed to the completion handler.
```

Reviewer: Please update and also update in the ICoreWebView2::ExecuteScript documentation (thx!)

  /// The result value is a JSON encoded string. If the result is undefined,
  /// contains a reference cycle, or otherwise is not able to be encoded into

>   /// JSON, the JSON `null` value is returned as the `null` string.

Reviewer 2: Unclear what "the `null` string" means. Could mean

* The string `"null"`.
* A null pointer.
* An empty string.

Reviewer: Make it clearer this is the 'null' string (and also please update ICoreWebView2::Executescript)

>   /// JSON, the JSON `null` value is returned as the `null` string.

Reviewer 2: Text is a little confusing. It says "If the result is not encodable, then the JSON `null` value is returned as the `null` string." But the JSON `null` value is always encoded as `"null"`, regardless of what the script returned.

I think it's trying to say "If the result is not encodable, then the result is consided to be `null`, which is encoded in JSON as the string `"null"`.

Reviewer: Please update (and also please update ICoreWebView2::Executescript)

  ///
  /// \> [!NOTE]\n\> A function that has no explicit return value returns undefined.  If the
  /// script that was run throws an unhandled exception, then the result is
  /// also `null`. This method is applied asynchronously. If the method is
  /// run before `ContentLoading`, the script will not be executed
  /// and the JSON `null` will be returned.

>   /// This operation works even if `ICoreWebView2Settings::IsScriptEnabled` is

Reviewer 2: By "works", do you mean "The operation doesn't crash -- returns `S_OK` (but doesn't do anything and immediately completes with `"null"`)", or do you mean "The operation executes the script"?

Reviewer: It executes script. Please make clearer (and also please update ICoreWebView2::Executescript)

  /// set to `FALSE`.
  ///
  /// \snippet ScriptComponent.cpp ExecuteScriptFrame
  HRESULT ExecuteScript(

>       [in] LPCWSTR javaScript,

Reviewer 3: Don't need the "P" anymore

Reviewer: Please fix if possible

      [in] ICoreWebView2ExecuteScriptCompletedHandler* handler);
}
```
## .NET and WinRT
```c#
namespace Microsoft.Web.WebView2.Core
{
    /// CoreWebView2Frame provides direct access to the iframes information and use.
     runtimeclass CoreWebView2Frame
    {

>         /// A frame navigation will raise a `NavigationStarting` event and

Reviewer 3: Process note ... OK to leave out the descriptions here that duplicate above. Nothing wrong with it, but if you want to save some time.

Reviewer: 👍
